Entry #6
83rd DAY OF SUMMER, 1560

Something terrible happened.

Yesterday we continued to study the mural and decided to make camp on the chamber. During supper, Master Hardaker spoke of the fearsome hypothesis he had after carefully analyzing our findings. He believed that the Ancients were not native of this world, that they came thousands of years ago using the octagon of light and established their dominion here, conquering and slaving the native population.

To say that the mood turned dark would be an understatement. At that moment I believe we all came to that conclusion, one way or the other, but considered it far too terrible to fully accept it, and that the Master was simply the first one to voice it. I must admit, my initial excitement was slowly turning into anxiety at that moment. We had no way of confirming his theory, but implications of it were truly terrifying. 
  
If the Ancients were indeed conquerors able to travel to other worlds and subjugating entire races to their will, why did they vanish? Could they come back, and if they did, what would be of us? And if they fell, then what in the name of the Gods could have done it? 
After a few hours of uneasy sleep, the silence was broken by Valdavar. He was the one standing watch and told us that the corridor from where we came had disappeared, and that a church-like room took its place beyond the threshold.
We approached the doorway and peeked inside. The room was rectangular in shape, like the others, and had many stone benches turned towards the walls, which in turn had stranger carvings than the ones we saw thus far. Mr. Fiechter took his talisman, approached the Master and strongly suggested the Master to leave.

I must admit, in that moment curiosity bested anxiety, mine and the Master, and it was decided we would first investigate the room, despite the protests of the rest of the party.  We should have listened. Upon closer inspection, the wall shew carvings of circles, points and lines, which seemed to be stars and constellations, but different from those we know. 

I was next to Hardaker when he touched one of the blue gems in the star map. It became red and the carvings started to quickly shift, reconfiguring themselves into new constellations. The room behind us disappeared in an eye-blink, melting into inky darkness, only to reappear as suddenly as it had vanished. The others, however were not there, in their place were several hooded figures, all of them as tall as the statue we found, with humps int their backs that moved beneath their tunics.

We couldn’t see their faces, but they were staring at us, I could feel it. I froze in fear as they began to approach us, slowly. The Master rushed back to the wall and touched the gem, taking us back. The situation however, was far from welcoming.
Valdavar lay on the floor, gravely injured, Fiecther was screaming as something dragged him through the door, and Grok was in the process of beating to death a figure that was screeching and twisting on the floor.

We made Grok control himself and went after Fiecther, to no avail. The moment he was out of our sight, the screams stopped and once we reached the door, the room was no longer there, instead replaced by a corridor. Valdavar perished before we could do anything.
It seems as if the gods have abandoned us.
