Entry #5
82th DAY OF SUMMER, 1560

Yesterday we prepared for another, hopefully longer, expedition. Much to our disappointment, however, the cave entrances were no longer there. Although we were aware that this was bound to happen, we couldn’t help but feel startled. And thus, we spent the rest of the day and the next morning seeking a new entrance.
   
Mr. Valdavar came across a pillar surrounded by a spiral staircase leading downward in a middle of a clearing we already passed through on the other day. Both of them were made of bone-white stone, overgrown with foliage. The true bizarre nature of the place was becoming even more apparent by the hour.

We began our descent, Grok leading the way with his mace at the ready. A long dark hallway of the same white stone stood before us. We pressed onward, with our lanterns as the only source of light there. Eventually the light of the entrance faded in the distance and Grok refused to go any further. Unbelievable! That giant of an orc, trembling with fear.

Was the corridor unnaturally long? Yes, by all means. Was the darkness surrounding us seemingly impenetrable and lifelike? Perhaps. Was there a sudden shriek of something in the distance? Yes. However, in the face of such opportunities for knowledge, there were no reasons for fear.  

After a sudden right turn, we reached a large chamber of sorts, and there we found the mother lode. There was a mural, several feet long and high, stretching from the ceiling to the floor, which depicted scenes of humanoids with 6 arms emerging from a octagon of light, building an underground city, fighting and ultimately defeating other humanoid creatures of different sizes and four limbs only, subjecting them to what can only be described as slavery.

Our combined excitement was tremendous, however the true surprise presented itself when Grok raised his lantern and illuminated the wall on the other side of the hall. 

A statue. Some eight feet in height, of a humanoid with four arms sprouting from his back, wearing a tunic of sorts, his two (… shall I say, regular?) arms raised upwards. It’s head shew a rather odious face, eight eyes and Chelicerae on his mouth. Grok fainted. I truly am beginning to doubt our protector’s endurance. However, I cannot help but remember what he said back in the Inn. “Bugfolk…”
Master Hardaker calls me. I shall write any other findings as soon as possible.
